README.md, before:



The PyIGRA Package
==================

The [National Centres for Environmental Information](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/weather-balloon/integrated-global-radiosonde-archive)
provides a large global archive for vertical soundings also known as radiosondes.
__PyIGRA__ downloads and extracts data from the
[Integrated Global Radiosonde Archive](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/weather-balloon/integrated-global-radiosonde-archive)
data set and prepares them in a more handy data format.


Package Installation
====================

```bash
   cd PyPackage
   sudo python setup.py install
```

Requires the two additional python modules ``logging`` and ``ConfigParser``.


Using the PyIGRA Package
========================

There is a script called **PyIGRA_test.sh** which provides an
example of the main functionality of the PyIGRA package

```bash
   # Searching for a station, in this case Innsbruck
   PyIGRA_search --id inns

   # Should print "AUM00011120  47.2603   11.3439  581.0    INNSBRUCK-FLUGHAFEN ...
   # Where the first part (AUM00011120) is the ID we need to download the data
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 -o test1.txt
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 -p PRESSURE,TEMPERATURE -o test2.txt

   # Additional arguments:
   # For testing/development: only print the first 2 entries
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 -l 2

   # Keep zip file after download. If PyIGRA is called again (and the
   # zip file exists on disc) no download will be required.
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 --keep

   # Change output format (only extract TEMPERATURE and PRESSURE
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 --parameters TEMPERATURE,PRESSURE
```

PyIGRA_seach is reading the latest station list and can be used to get the
proper station identifier (-i/--id) needed for the PyIGRA executable.
PyIGRA is downloading a zip file from the ftp server, extracts the data,
and outputs the data in a new format. In this case the data will be
piped into the output file (-o/--output) as specified in the script.


INFORMATION
=======================
- Autor:    Reto Stauffer<at>uibk.ac.at
- Date:     2016-10-11
- License:  GPL3+

A detailed description of the IGRA2 data format:
- ftp://ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/igra/igra2-list-format.txt

Station list used by PyIGRA_search:
- http://www1.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/igra/data/igra2-data-format.txt

Direct data access:
- http://www1.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/igra/data/data-por/

Commit message:

Changed handling of messages where nominal time or release time are not reported (99/9999 reported).

README.md, after:



The PyIGRA Package
==================

The [National Centres for Environmental Information](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/weather-balloon/integrated-global-radiosonde-archive)
provides a large global archive for vertical soundings also known as radiosondes.
__PyIGRA__ downloads and extracts data from the
[Integrated Global Radiosonde Archive](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/weather-balloon/integrated-global-radiosonde-archive)
data set and prepares them in a more handy data format.

**Please note:** if sounding release time is not reported at all (data file
contains `9999` for `HHMM` the message will not be extracted form the raw data file.
If only minutes are missing (e.g., `2099` is reported) the release time minutes will
be set to `00` (in case of `2099` `20:00 UTC` is assumed).
If the nominal hour is not reported (see [format description file](ftp://ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/igra/data/igra2-data-format.txt)
but the release time contains valid hour information the hour from the release time will
be used as nominal hour.


Package Installation
====================

```bash
   cd PyPackage
   sudo python setup.py install
```

Requires the two additional python modules ``logging`` and ``ConfigParser``.


Using the PyIGRA Package
========================

There is a script called **PyIGRA_test.sh** which provides an
example of the main functionality of the PyIGRA package

```bash
   # Searching for a station, in this case Innsbruck
   PyIGRA_search --id inns

   # Should print "AUM00011120  47.2603   11.3439  581.0    INNSBRUCK-FLUGHAFEN ...
   # Where the first part (AUM00011120) is the ID we need to download the data
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 -o test1.txt
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 -p PRESSURE,TEMPERATURE -o test2.txt

   # Additional arguments:
   # For testing/development: only print the first 2 entries
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 -l 2

   # Keep zip file after download. If PyIGRA is called again (and the
   # zip file exists on disc) no download will be required.
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 --keep

   # Change output format (only extract TEMPERATURE and PRESSURE
   PyIGRA --id AUM00011120 --parameters TEMPERATURE,PRESSURE
```

PyIGRA_seach is reading the latest station list and can be used to get the
proper station identifier (-i/--id) needed for the PyIGRA executable.
PyIGRA is downloading a zip file from the ftp server, extracts the data,
and outputs the data in a new format. In this case the data will be
piped into the output file (-o/--output) as specified in the script.


INFORMATION
=======================
- Autor:    Reto Stauffer<at>uibk.ac.at
- Date:     2016-10-11
- License:  GPL3+

A detailed description of the IGRA2 data format:
- ftp://ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/igra/igra2-list-format.txt (station list format)
- ftp://ftp.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/igra/data/igra2-data-format.txt (data format)

Station list used by PyIGRA_search:
- http://www1.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/igra/data/igra2-data-format.txt

Direct data access:
- http://www1.ncdc.noaa.gov/pub/data/igra/data/data-por/
